README.md, before:

# GitHub Faces: Curated Avatars & Profiles

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-brightgreen.svg)](LICENSE)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/john-bampton/john-bampton.github.io.svg)](https://github.com/john-bampton/john-bampton.github.io/graphs/contributors)

> "Explore the faces behind GitHub. Discover the people shaping open-source."

Explore and showcase the top GitHub user avatars in a modern, interactive grid. This project fetches, caches, and displays real GitHub profiles with up-to-date avatars and stats.

---

## 🚀 Features

- Dynamic fetching of GitHub users via the API
- Secure avatar downloads and cache management
- Responsive HTML grid with Bootstrap
- Real user filtering (`type: User`)
- Automatic avatar updates
- RSS feed for new faces
- Modern, clean design
- Pre-commit hooks for code quality (black, isort)
- XSS-safe Jinja2 templates

---

## 🌐 Live Preview

[View the site](https://john-bampton.github.io/)

---

## ⚡ Quickstart

1. **Clone the repo:**
	```bash
	git clone https://github.com/john-bampton/john-bampton.github.io.git
	cd john-bampton.github.io
	```

2. **Install dependencies:**
	```bash
	pip install -e .
	```

3. **Run the fetcher:**
	```bash
	APP_ENV=test python fetch.py
	```
	<br>
	<sup>
	<b>Tip:</b> Setting <code>APP_ENV=test</code> will fetch only <b>20 users</b> for fast testing. Omit this variable to fetch <b>400 users</b> (default, production mode).
	</sup>

4. **Open the grid:**
	```bash
	docs/index.html
	```

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

- `TARGET_USERS`: Number of GitHub users to fetch (default: 400, or 20 in test mode)
- `MAX_EXTRA_PAGES`: Extra pages to fetch if needed (default: 2)
- Set `APP_ENV=test` for test mode (fetches 20 users)

---

## 🖼️ Screenshots

![Sample Faces](docs/images/other/screenshot-1280.png)

---

## 🛠️ Development & Quality

- Code formatted with [black](https://github.com/psf/black) and [isort](https://github.com/pycqa/isort)
- Pre-commit hooks: see `.pre-commit-config.yaml`
- Configs in `pyproject.toml`
- Linting: flake8, pylint, yamllint, isort, black

---

## 📦 RSS Feed

- RSS feed generated at [docs/feed.xml](https://john-bampton.github.io/feed.xml)
- Auto-generated when you run `render.py`
- Follows RSS 2.0 format
- Subscribe for new updates

---

## 🤝 Contributing


We welcome PRs, issues, and suggestions! Add a ⭐, fork, or help improve the grid and features.

**Code Quality Reminder:**

- Always run `pre-commit run --all-files` before pushing or opening a pull request. This ensures your code is auto-formatted and passes all checks.
- If you don't have pre-commit installed, run:
	```bash
	pip install pre-commit
	pre-commit install
	```
	This sets up the hooks for your local repo.

---

## Powered by

[<img src="docs/images/other/python-logo.png" alt="Python Powered" style="height:80px;">](https://www.python.org/)
[<img src="docs/images/other/pycharm-logo.png" alt="PyCharm Powered" style="height:80px;">](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/)

---

## 📝 License

MIT License © 2025 John Bampton & Seyyed Ali Mohammadiyeh (Max Base)

Commit message:

Max updates super3 2025 12 25 (#184)
* FIX #172

* Run pre-commit to fix all issues

* add \b before src=

* Write feed rss

* support multiple links in feed rss, figure out                 pubDate: datetime.datetime.utcnow().strftime('%a, %d %b %Y %H:%M:%S GMT'),

* fix utcnow func - depracted

* Using minify_xml to minift feed rss

* Double check to fix #168

* Adding versioning to service worker: Fix #163

* clean code: service-worker.js

* Fix #157: The local variable name hides the variable defined in the outer scope, making it inaccessible and might confuse

* Change target users smartly

* Fix pre-commit issues again

* Fix #148 - Errors found in Python isort

* Fix #151 - (BAN-B701) Use of jinja2 templates with autoescape=False detected

* Adding labler - #138

* Update readme - fix #129

* Update readme - #129

* run pre-commit

* Fix #174 - Either all code paths should have explicit returns, or none of them JS-0045

* Fix all warnings in deepsource for js and py

* fix safe_urlretrieve function - thanks deepsource

* run pre-commit

* change python version from 3.15 to 3.14 - 3.15 not handled in github yet fully

* change python version from 3.15 to 3.14 - 3.15 not handled in github yet fully

* remove safe_urlretrieve and use requests

* use safe_path in my download func

* generate sitemap.xml, add robots.txt, update gitignore

* ignore xml files

* Delete docs/feed.xml

* update render,py, update readme, remove non-min.css and js

* update render,py, update readme, remove non-min.css and js

README.md, after:

# GitHub Faces: Curated Avatars & Profiles

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-brightgreen.svg)](LICENSE)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/john-bampton/john-bampton.github.io.svg)](https://github.com/john-bampton/john-bampton.github.io/graphs/contributors)

> "Explore the faces behind GitHub. Discover the people shaping open-source."

Explore and showcase the top GitHub user avatars in a modern, interactive grid. This project fetches, caches, and displays real GitHub profiles with up-to-date avatars and stats.

---

## 🚀 Features

- Dynamic fetching of GitHub users via the API
- Secure avatar downloads and cache management
- Responsive HTML grid with Bootstrap
- Real user filtering (`type: User`)
- Automatic avatar updates
- RSS feed for new faces
- Modern, clean design
- Pre-commit hooks for code quality (black, isort)
- XSS-safe Jinja2 templates

---

## 🌐 Live Preview

[View the site](https://john-bampton.github.io/)

---

## ⚡ Quickstart

1. **Clone the repo:**
	```bash
	git clone https://github.com/john-bampton/john-bampton.github.io.git
	cd john-bampton.github.io
	```

2. **Install dependencies:**
	```bash
	pip install -e .
	```

3. **Run the fetcher:**
	```bash
	APP_ENV=test python fetch.py
	```
	<br>
	<sup>
	<b>Tip:</b> Setting <code>APP_ENV=test</code> will fetch only <b>20 users</b> for fast testing. Omit this variable to fetch <b>400 users</b> (default, production mode).
	</sup>

4. **Open the grid:**
	```bash
	docs/index.html
	```

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

- `TARGET_USERS`: Number of GitHub users to fetch (default: 400, or 20 in test mode)
- `MAX_EXTRA_PAGES`: Extra pages to fetch if needed (default: 2)
- Set `APP_ENV=test` for test mode (fetches 20 users)

---

## 🖼️ Screenshots

![Sample Faces](docs/images/other/screenshot-1280.png)

---

## 🛠️ Development & Quality

- Code formatted with [black](https://github.com/psf/black) and [isort](https://github.com/pycqa/isort)
- Pre-commit hooks: see `.pre-commit-config.yaml`
- Configs in `pyproject.toml`
- Linting: flake8, pylint, yamllint, isort, black

---


## 📦 RSS Feed & Sitemap

- RSS feed generated at [docs/feed.xml](https://john-bampton.github.io/feed.xml)
- Sitemap generated at [docs/sitemap.xml](https://john-bampton.github.io/sitemap.xml)
- Both are auto-generated when you run `render.py`
- RSS feed follows RSS 2.0 format and is loaded in your HTML via:
	`<link rel="alternate" type="application/rss+xml" title="John Bampton RSS Feed" href="/feed.xml">`
- Sitemap follows the standard XML sitemap protocol for search engines and is referenced in `robots.txt`:
	```
	Sitemap: https://john-bampton.github.io/sitemap.xml
	```
- Subscribe for new updates and enjoy better SEO!

---

## 🤝 Contributing


We welcome PRs, issues, and suggestions! Add a ⭐, fork, or help improve the grid and features.

**Code Quality Reminder:**

- Always run `pre-commit run --all-files` before pushing or opening a pull request. This ensures your code is auto-formatted and passes all checks.
- If you don't have pre-commit installed, run:
	```bash
	pip install pre-commit
	pre-commit install
	```
	This sets up the hooks for your local repo.

---

## Powered by

[<img src="docs/images/other/python-logo.png" alt="Python Powered" style="height:80px;">](https://www.python.org/)
[<img src="docs/images/other/pycharm-logo.png" alt="PyCharm Powered" style="height:80px;">](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/)

---

## 📝 License

MIT License © 2025 John Bampton & Seyyed Ali Mohammadiyeh (Max Base)
